---
title: "2 Weeks of Ross"
collection: posts
permalink: /posts/two-weeks-of-ross
date: 2025-06-16
---

Being a JC is...very different from being a first year. It's like I never left on July 17th, 2024. I banter with the other JCs, joke around with counselors, stay up so late that I start hallucinating, and, all-day every day, _live_ math. But, attending lecture as a JC instead of a first-year is wildly different. Instead of eagerly raising my hand, I sit back and grin as first-years take wild guesses at what Dr. Fowler is talking about. Late at night, instead of groaning about my problem sets, I write down a equation on the board and tell the first years to bash out the solution in the hopes of finding a hint towards a devilish problem in Z[i]. 

Although I spend a great deal of time, of course, solving problems (mostly through the aid of Ireland and Rosen's great book), even more of my time is spent writing notes, grading problem sets, helping people with problems, and of course, teaching my own course on quantum mechanics. And I love it. There really is quite no feeling like that of seeing people in the same position you were in a year ago, and realizing not just how special my experience was, but also being able to help others have the same wonderful mathematical (and personal) development I had at Ross. Seeing all my friends from Ross 2024 is also amazing (although, sadly, Aiden, Grant, and the rest of Grinders aren't back). 

On the note of Ireland and Rosen and number theory in general, Dr. Patrikis's class on the Arithmetic of Curves has been absolutely phenomenal. It's made me question my commitment to physics, in favor of some kind of career in number theory. Number theory as a subject has a unique kind of **character** (ha, get the pun :3) to it, and it brings me a great deal of joy. I want to, by the end of Ross, get to at the very minimum Chapter 12 of Ireland and Rosen on the fundamentals of Algebraic Number Theory (and on the way, prove Cubic and Biquartic Reciprocity), but I'll finish the book during the 2025-2026 school year, so there's not that much of a problem there.

I think I'm committed, at the very least, to applying to be a counselor at Ross 2026. Of course, there's no guarantee I'll be accepted, but I'm good friends with Dr. Fowler, so it should be more likely than not. I clearly don't know enough math right now, but I think by next year after finishing I&R and maybe starting Milne's notes on Algebraic Number Theory along with taking Point-Set Topology and Theory of Analysis, I should be qualified. If I do end up being a counselor, I will have to practice patience - I'm very impatient when it comes to math, and I need to learn how to be more patient, both with myself and with my students. But, I would really love being at Ross again (and I'd get to recoup some of the tuition costs!)

For anyone reading this who's interested in math, I can say, reaffirmed by my two weeks as a JC, that being a first year at Ross is an unparalleled mathematical experience. Ross is truly a life-changing place, and in my (unbiased) opinion, the best high school summer math program. Ross has a very different culture than other camps (largely inspired by Dan Shapiro), which often seem to view the camp primarily as a social activity where the mathematics emerges as an accessory to the community-building. In contrast, Ross emphasizes math all-day every-day until the point where you are entirely spent, and once you hit the breaking point, _you do some more math_, and the social bonding arises naturally out of the mathematics. This culture is changing, in my opinion, for the worst, but is still unique amongst math programs and leads to the most mathematical development out of any program. Please apply to Ross. 